the 2nd quarter of 2013 saw a
continuation of the strong recovering
consumer demand for gold which was
amplified further compared to the
preceding period physical gold in the
form of jewelry bars and coins surged
ahead by fifty three percent catalyzed
by the drop in the gold price which
consumers in multiple markets saw as a
buying opportunity specifically the
demand for jewelry was the highest
second quarter since 2007 this was
driven by the powerhouse markets of
India and China jointly representing in
excess of fifty percent of world demand
although it's worth noting that the US
market saw a second successive quarter
of positive growth the same was true for
bar and coin investment where a
ninety-two percent increase year-on-year
in the official coin category and
parallel growth of 75 percent in
physical Bardem and created record
quarterly sales despite the strong
consumer up take over all gold demand
for the quarter was twelve percent lower
than in the same period last year
looking now in detail at China total
demand was very strong despite this
quarter traditionally being quiet after
the Chinese New Year jewelry purchases
rose to 153 tons as people took
advantage of the lower gold price in
many cities across China there have been
widespread incidences of retailers
running out of stock yo anja investment
demand for bars and coins surged by an
incredible 157 percent to 123 tons as
Chinese investors added to their
strategic long-term personal gold
holdings so despite recent price
adjustments this gold demand trend data
reinforces just how the Chinese belief
in holding gold as a store of value has
become even more entrenched in India
quarterly demand has also remained
strong increasing by over seventy
percent year-on-year to 310 tons this
growth has taken place
despite continued measures by the
government to curb such enthusiasm for
gold demand for jewelry in India was up
51% to 188 tons with ninety-one percent
of demand triggered by occasions in
India increasing volume levels are a
response to the convergence of seasonal
festivals and lower prices per gram
indian retail investment in bars and
coins experienced a record quarter up
116 percent 2 122 tonnes although there
is speculation that an element of this
purchasing behavior may be more tactical
than strategic turning to other areas of
demand and examining the entire
investment market for gold across all
geographies and forms there was a net
increase in gold investment of a hundred
and five tonnes this quarter the second
quarter outflows from ETFs to the tune
of 402 tons were offset by a record 508
tons of physical bar and coin investment
up seventy-eight percent year-on-year
demand in the technology sector remained
broadly steady at a hundred and four
tonnes showing a marginal increase on
the same period last year central bank
gold demand remained strong at 71 tons
with this period being the 10th
consecutive quarter in which they have
been net purchases of gold turning to
the supply side mine production was up
just four percent versus the same period
last year at 732 tonnes in contrast
recycling saw a twenty-one percent
year-on-year decline reflecting improved
economic conditions and positive
consumer expectations for the future
gold price in major markets in
combination these two figures led to
quarter tues total supply of gold
declining by almost six percent compared
to a year ago supply therefore remains
constrained this quarter we have seen a
continuation of the gold market
rebalancing as a reduction in price
immediately triggered purchasing by
asian consumers
in these core markets particularly India
and China confidence in the value and
power of physical gold held both in
jewelry and bars and coins continues to
Klein